---
layout: post 
category : bioinformatics
title: Ambiguity of ontology
comments: yes
share: no
tags : [Gene Ontology, Disease Ontology, Annotation]
---

Along with the development in biology, bioinformatics becomes more and more concerned with its capability to deal with big data.
Sequence data keeps surging since the sequencing technique emerged after 2000.
There is a widely accepted assumption that the function of biological molecule is determined by its sequence.
Accompany with sequence data, the corresponding annotation data in transcriptomics, proteomics and  interactome accumulated to an astronomical scale as well.
Heterogeneous data, such as genome sequence, RNA sequence, lnc-RNA sequence, micro-RNA sequence, Protein sequence and their relevant annotation data, promiscuous standard and protocols put sand in the wheel of study comprehensively and systematically.

In order to clean the obstacles of the multi-protocol situation discussed above, [Gruber et al (1993)][Opaper] pointed out that we need to use the representational vocabulary to define the standard of particular domain of subject. 
And this is the origin of ontology.

The advent of ontology triggered the prosperity of bioinformatics, and some universities and organizations have made a very successful application of ontology, such as gene ontology(GO) and disease ontology(DO).
Nevertheless, the ontology way of bioinformatics confronts lots of intractability.
Mainly, it clusters as these 2 classes.

1.The instability of ontology structure and the number of its corresponding annotation instances.

To measure the similarity of two heterogeneous biological molecules, the structure of directed acyclic graph(DAG) of ontology and its corresponding annotation instances are the crucial features. The structure of ontology is the reflection of the structure of relevant domain knowledge.
As the particular domain knowledge develops, the structure of ontology changes and its annotation instances changes simultaneously. 

2.The reliability of annotation data.

The ontology annotation procedure presents a status of chaos. 
It suffers from the poor sensitivity and accuracy of biology and bioinformatics technology, for example, the homology detection.
There exists a considerable amount of noise in the annotation data.
In addition to that, if an instance is annotated by an ontology item already has a lot of annotation, then the significance of this instance is, actually, being diluted(Shallow Annotation problem).

[Opaper]: http://secs.ceas.uc.edu/~mazlack/ECE.716.Sp2011/Semantic.Web.Ontology.Papers/Gruber.93a.pdf 

