---
layout: post 
category :  technology
title: Messy script
comments: yes
share:  no
tags : [python, r, comment,annotation]
---
 
Try to annotate a bunch of scripts coded months ago, it is really inadvisable.
However, I am the very people who is reckless and lazy to annotate the small scripts.
Here is the consequence, one day, my boss suddenly wanted to know the detail procedure of the data generated by my scripts which was made about one month ago.
It took me hours to address this problem, and the eventual solution was, to develop a new and annotated script included all the functions of all the tiny scripts.
I don't know whether there exists a certain kind of software that could organize the small scripts and data transforming projects.
That kind of software must has a huge marketability.

I deal with the plain file quite often, such as transform one file to another, merge several files together.
It is like, flexibility turns out to be a source of messiness.
For example, python. 
Believe in Python, not only for its easy grammar but also the elegant format.
And I am convinced that Python is great to deal with plain file in bioinformatics, it is easy and computationally efficient. 
But meanwhile, Python is a potent script-garbage maker.
One of the evidence is `def`, which could be posited everywhere in the `.py` file.

{% highlight python  %}
def foo1(x):
	def foo2(y):
		if(y<100):
			return y+foo2(y+1)
		elif(y==100):
			return y
	def foo3(y):
		if(y>100):
			return y+foo3(y-1)
		elif(y==100):
			return y
	if(x<100):
		return(foo2(x))
	else:
		return(foo3(x))
{% endhighlight %}

In addition to that function statement could be embedded in a function statement, one `.py` file could import another module anywhere, which makes the scripts in the project folder intricately interrelated.
Usually, a project folder turns out to be full of interrelated `.py` files and intermediate files.
It is hard to reuse the former script and data.

Here, script makes life better and messier. 
